welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's march
1st 2021 and as every week we
go over the stuff that we've worked on
on the past week
and things we plan to work on and then
discuss
any open agenda items um
i start with myself i've worked on the
js multi-format stuff for
much and generally spoken js ipfs but i
start with
js ipfs unix of s and i did a small
patch that just
used the protocol buffer stuff the new
one but then i decided to
just because like when i was integrated
integrating it into ipfs it turned out
the whole like
cid is different and so on i just tried
to get
all the json multi formats into jsc
tuning cfs
and it's it worked
so there's no js ipal d in the branch i
have
but um yeah so we'll see how this works
with js
ipfs and the interesting thing
i think was that um we're talking about
like also like abstractions or
missing pieces that jsc
multiformus doesn't have and
so what js ipld was doing it basically
combined the encoding
to build blocks and store them on disk
in one thing and it kind of feels
strange that
all this is bundled in one thing but
when i did
the parting or to the new stuff it i
found out like
it's actually quite useful and
mostly for writing tests because you
just
always do the same steps you always do
encode this thing get the cid
store it somewhere and it's just like a
single step that's quite convenient
so i'm still not sure like yeah or if we
should end up with
similar abstractions again probably it
won't be called js ipld but perhaps
something else or it would be part of js
ipfs i don't know but it's just like
it kind of like turned out to be quite
useful
having this um in one step
um yeah and i will just yeah
go on with doing this in the next week
and see how it goes and hopefully
yeah i get something working
um next is eric
now i'm a ton to report that's
fresh and new this week but i will
briefly remind folks in case they're
interested i talked i
i made a bit of an exploration report
about fixture file formats
if anyone wants to comment on it um
there's been a pr out for a while now on
the link system in goa people
prime and that still hasn't officially
landed but for the record as far as i'm
concerned it's fine to build on
um the reason it hasn't landed yet is
i had some more conversations with the
other people who
are interested in the maintenance of our
other go libraries like
um go multihash especially
which i ended up accidentally half
replacing
in the course of this pr and guidepld
prime
um and
i it sounds like we're agreed that we're
actually going to try to update a bunch
of stuff and go multi-hash
upstream so that's kind of exciting i'm
a little daunted by that because it's
one of our older libraries that is
highly transitively dependent upon so
we'll have to be
very careful about making changes to it
um
but that's probably what i'm going to be
up to in the next week
so there was um
some work i did as part of this link
system pr that
started using a bunch of standard
library hash interfaces which is a
common thing in the standard library and
going
and is supporting of streaming hashes
and i did a bunch of work on making
the import paths
such that you could compile your program
without
transitively depending on a bunch of
unusual hash functions like
or not even unusual but just not in the
standard library so like shot three
is not in the going standard library so
you're pulling in more transit
dependencies if you use it
um trying to migrate all that stuff to a
reasonable plug-in system so that you
can
choose whether or not you're going to
have them in your transit dependency
tree
and end up in your binary so the current
state of go multi-hash
forces you have all these things in your
binary
and we're going to fix that so that's
going to be my phone
week ahead and then the link system
thing should presumably get rebased on
top of that
it shouldn't have any outward facing
changes really just
putting things right upstream
cool next one is
will
um i guess to provide an update of
where we've been um and this is as much
reporting
on behalf of hannah and alex um
as myself there is a repo
that now has taken shape called ipfs go
fetcher
which provides an ipld primed fetching
interface um
and that will
allow us to transition to that from the
current go merkle dag
based fetching interface um that is used
through ipfs so this is the next step of
uh ipfs or iplt primary and ipfs work
um if you have
comments on what that interface looks
like that repo is the place to put them
um
the next pieces that are happening and
hopefully land in place in the next
few days this week
using the lynx system branch that
eric mentioned probably we will either
make a new interface likely not in that
repo but i think we haven't figured out
exactly which repo it'll end up in that
makes the most sense
for the current add and remove
interfaces that google michael dagg
exposes
um so it we found that the interface
that is go merkle dag is actually three
distinct interfaces
um there is a i would like to get
some data based on a sid um which will
both attempt to get it from your local
data store but also will potentially
invoke network things to fetch it
through bitswap or
graphsync or it'll do this whole
networky thing
so that's what gofetcher is is it's the
i would like to get data please
um then there's a set of interfaces that
are just for the local data store
like i would like to add this data into
my local data store and i would like to
remove this data from my local data
store
um and that's really a codec
serialization thing
that the link system storing um has
something close to it and that it can
serialize a dag into
a byte stream but we would like to
serialize a dag
into your data store please so that's a
slightly higher level thing that just
built on top of it so we'll put that
somewhere
and remove a dag from your data store
please
um and then the third one is like i've
got unix fs and i would like to
add a file to a directory so there's the
set of mutationy things um
and those may just sort of happen in
the ipl ipld prime thing or we may have
some helper functions
um to help
move towards semi-standard ways of doing
things so that
we don't have to change it in multiple
places um
anyway so that's inflated um the other
work i did last week is i took
the get codec there was a sort of
non-standard way of thinking about git
objects from ipfs
and i rebuilt that on top of ipld prime
nodes instead of ipl
format nodes and there's a pr that could
also use review on that
more to come
things um any updates from
anyone else else we get to the
gen items so also feel free to add
engine items
so i have there um the kind of like
update from danielle and also
talking about goku deck pb
yeah so initially i was going to ping
rod about this on slack but i thought i
might as well since it's a monday i
might as well just bring it up here
um so to recap from last week will was
asking what's the difference between
[ __ ] pld prime proto and go kodak deck pb
because they're both simple
to implement the deck pb um codec
i don't want to say spec because i think
that's only the latter but essentially
we have to choose one right because what
i want to maintain both
and something that hannah said last week
is
it doesn't really matter which one we
choose as long as it works with unix fs
data and uses ipld prime
um so i started i picked up this task of
okay
let's decide which one we want to use
the advantage of
the prime one which is the one hana
wrote is that it uses i think the same
code that unix fs uses which is the one
from gomer called ag
but it's not api wise it's not
very nice in terms of ipld prime but it
also pulls in go merkle dac as a
dependency so that
recursive module dependency is
technically not a problem for go it
builds fine but in
longer term it would be a problem to
have it would cause
problems like um it's just a web of
dependencies that's not very nice
at the level of modules uh the other one
is dac pb which is one that rod wrote
um at some point and the question was is
that actually
um compatible with unix fs data
so what i did was there's a package in
gomercl that called pb
and it has a table driven test called
testcompat
and it uses the encoder and decoder for
that pb in gomerkeldaq
and it has a bunch of test cases like no
links a bunch of links uh some data blah
blah
and i essentially rewrote that using
that pb
and it mostly works there's a few test
cases where it doesn't where it errors
out
and this is the tricky bit this is where
i want to ask you all
if you think this will cause problems
for reading and writing unix effects
data
some of the tests that fail are to be
expected
they're the ones like having
a nil links slice as opposed to having
an empty links slice
and that's fine because they encode to
the same thing and protobuf
so it's just a different way to
represent them and go but as long as
they
encode the same thing that's fine at the
level of the encoding that's fine
the other class of test cases that fail
oh i might need to reread that my
apologies
uh the other test case that failed
is essentially invalid links so links
that lack a hash
that kind of thing so um so i guess the
question there there is i've seen that
the spec does say that it does say that
the hash technically is optional but
should not be treated as such
when reading and writing nodes but has
anybody verified
whether unix fs v1 has such links
no this is a problem that now you're
you're touching on which is a good thing
so part of the issue we had with the
spec for dak pb was just getting input
up the stack into unix fs and people
that actually use tag pb
so there's a lot of brave assumptions
being made there about what can and
can't exist and what to deal with it and
just getting answers for things like um
uh what what happened because
what happens if if i get a hash that
it's not a valid multi-hash
or is zero bytes like what hap what do i
do with that
uh and um is that am i likely to
encounter that anywhere in the wild
what is the likelihood of that getting
answers to that has been very difficult
so
there's some brave assumptions made in
that spec that that may turn out to be
problematic
um and it's the spec is not set in stone
uh it is it is our best effort at trying
to bridge the world of
old dag pb to this new world of data
model and
that's what it is and that's that's so
dag
what is it go codec dag pb bakes in that
spec as it is
go code now go ipld prime proto
it basically just says here's go michael
dag that's doing this
this pb node pb link stuff let's just
wrap that around whatever
comes out of it and not make any
assumptions at all so there's
you know it'll it'll it'll take whatever
go merkel day gives you but what go
merkel day gives you
is is basically just it's just almost
stream of consciousness that
arises out of the bytes with no checking
like it's like
it's it's raw pb and um
there and we know that that's not the
case like because
on the encode side there's some rules so
it's yeah it's complicated but if you go
to that link
uh it's kind of hidden now because the
doc got updated but i wrote a whole lot
of stuff there
about the differences and um
and and it is good it's good that you're
touching on this now and getting into
real world data and i can't say
for sure whether the tests that you're
seeing failing are actually
accounting for real world things or just
accounting for things that are in the
code
my suspicion with my suspicion would be
the later that this is
stuff that they see in that has been
seen in the code and oh we should test
this as an edge case
but is it something that is going to
arise out of real world data
i suspect not but yeah
yeah that was my assumption as well
because i
can't figure out a case where an
embedded link would be useful
i mean the only possible case i can
think of is oh we decoded some data
we can't really use it but let's encode
it again and pass it somewhere else but
if you do that you might as well you
know use the original bytes so
yeah i don't know um so i guess what
i'll do is
just continue with this but sorry
continue using
uh go codec.pb but in the case that we
do find
that unixfs does use this kind of
semi-broken data
um i guess we'll get into a territory of
making the spec more lags to
actually be compatible with unix of s
okay and yeah and that's completely
reasonable and expected that once we hit
the real world
and we find out these assumptions don't
hold true then we would change it and
and you'll see
a couple of other places where that
matters right now there's even a
discussion about the t
size optionality occurring in the js ipf
ipfs size side because there was this
assertion that happened last year that
hey let's make t-size
something that we don't require
implementations to
write correctly but let's put one in
there anyway and defaulting to zero
something like that
and but the spec says this thing is
optional
and so that should be handled at a layer
above where if you
if you really want to just insert zero
then you should do that but right now
it's an actor's discussion whether maybe
we should encode that in the spec and
make it non-optional
and just default it to zero um
i mean i'm cool you can have it
it's not my problem the only other thing
i was going to say about this is
hannah did say that [ __ ] pld prime proto
has a few shortcuts for the sake of
performance so she said we might want to
port
some of those over to dakp if we end up
using wpb so you might see some pr's
no and don't treat me as a blocker like
just do what you need to do to make it
work i
yeah yeah so that was me so we'll most
likely
do uh will we most like most likely will
use deck pv uh because i can't really
experiment any more than what i've
already done and like you say it's hard
to tell if the tests
were driven by real data or not so
and here's another thing actually so um
go merkle dag pb also has additional
tests that i put in there as part of the
spec
process so um it's again it's going to
be
even harder to figure to disambiguate
what's where for what
because when i was doing that testing
work that was really testing edge the
edges of
you know what is a pv unknown in pv link
and and what does this thing produce
in these different states and finding
that there's a couple of different
states where you can get
the same bytes from different data and
so that was part of the process of
getting to the spec like that we should
have one way to get
to the same data like one data equals
one bytes
um so it's just there is a looseness
that has been around this whole area for
a very long time
that is inherited from protobuf but also
just
just from the you know let's make it
work and move on kind of thing which is
fair enough in these early early things
but
you know we only just now have been
going back to try and formalize it so
yeah i just realized i the tests i used
were test combat which are the ones you
wrote so that's mine
there you go yeah right and and those
and those you'll see those tests have
been mirrored in
in my in go codec pb but i've commented
out some of the ones
that i've asserted shouldn't be passing
so
so there is the same tests are there in
uh go codec dp
slightly different format but there's a
few removed and i think i think they're
still in the file i've just put notes
saying this
shouldn't this is bad so that
that compact test is me testing the
limits of what
go miracle dag pb does
and then me having opinions about what
it shouldn't do and doing that in go
code pv so fun fun
lots of fun oh god i just realized i
should have talked to you before i did
this because what i did
the table i ended up with is basically
the same one that you have
anyway moving along all right do you
think there's anything
those tests those tests by the way are
also mirrored in javascript so
there's three instances of them with go
merkle dag pb having the
the most relaxed and wide view
okay um last question promise um
any other tests that you think i should
look at because besides test combat
i didn't really find any tests that
seemed worthwhile
nothing gave michael dagg no okay
um i i can look at the javascript
side of things so i wouldn't expect many
great tests
there but still might be useful to
see what so i can yeah i can find out if
we have tests or basically so
probably we have tests in in the unix fs
rather
than in dag yeah true
because this is the thing the thing that
i was when i was going through this i
was just hungry for
real world data and it's just like where
do i get
representative real world data from
other than just picking someone's random
dag like
it doesn't exist it's not encoded in the
tests and it's a real problem
um what are the what's i'd love to see
real world data that tests all the edges
and but no one's really collected that
and that's really hard to collect
like just a in a day kind of thing you
really got to do a lot of research for
that
um danielle just in case so
in so as what said
currently the go codec deck pb
is the same as the javascript one and
basically this is what i currently work
on getting this new codec into
unisfs so just in case you make any
changes because of like edge cases or
whatever please like take
notes or something so that we can also
then update the javascript version
because
yeah um yeah cool
um yeah and so okay yeah
no go ahead it was just like so area
feel free to ping me so i'm not sure
like who's officially responsible or
something but like if you ping me i will
make sure that
yeah we get this worked out in
javascript
cool uh i i just want to ask uh rat can
you clarify
when you say a real world data that
pushes the edges
what do you mean exactly by this
okay what i mean is dag pb is the most
used codec
in ipfs yeah like it's like the other
ones don't even
write a mention um as much as we'd love
dyke's e42 and so this stuff is out
there in the wild
being pushed around and uh it's hitting
edges
and we have these we have a codec on the
deco side that is extremely sloppy
right now so uh on decode go merkle
dagpb
will uh there's it's a lot of ways that
it'll just say
yeah that sounds good i'll use that cool
and it'll decode really sloppy bytes
on the end code side it's more
predictable there's a determinism to the
end code
but the decode is very independent
undeterministic so so some of the
some of the decisions that went into the
spec was closing some of those holes and
saying
well we shouldn't see bytes that are of
this form
um because we i we don't see a d
an encoder that we have that is
producing them
but that's a very brave assumption uh
that those things
don't exist because there's other things
creating dag pp data
and there's also a lot of historical wpb
data that still lives and so
real world meaning this dag pb stuff out
there that people are passing around on
ipfs that may
have existed for many years that pushes
the limits of what we do
but how do you filter that out and find
something that's interesting and
representative
that's basically why i was asking
because like what does representative
mean because like i
you know when i when i first learned
about ipfs i did a [ __ ] load of very
like weird protobuf stuff that's not
represented right i mean they're still
on github you can still like import them
and stuff like that but this doesn't
mean that you should support them
uh so yeah from that perspective but now
yeah
it can answer my question you are aware
that um
i forgot which subsystem it is uh
something to do with geolocation within
the within lip p2p
is entirely protobuf that that pb based
without unix of us
um i knew there was some prototype stuff
i didn't know they were using date pb
but see and i never stepped up i never
stepped up the level to unix fs which
was which was my intention to get there
um because it's like it's this weird
onion that we do
with pvp decoding um
yeah it's just something to keep in mind
i i unfortunately don't remember exactly
which subsystem it was i just know there
is a thing
uh but if something yes if they you if
they're using the go code right now as
it isn't even the javascript code
that's sort of accounted for in the
current state the spec accounts for how
that works
now but
the ipv is interesting because we're
talking about data that could have been
created five years ago
and i'd love to get my hands on some of
that data and see if there's
any novelty in there
but that's not going to happen
will the like the data end up in some
cross language fixture kind of thing
because i was wondering if the
rust ipfs people obviously have their
own dagpb
encoder thing which i mean i've seen
and i think i fixed some things but i
i've never really like looked into like
how it actually works or if it does the
right thing
um and i would assume that it probably
doesn't do the same thing as the other
ones do
so um i guess it would make sense
because they're kind of like i would
still consider them early so i think
like breaking their stuff shouldn't be
too bad i
guess but i guess we should also keep it
on the radar or like i will keep it on
the radar that
we should also probably have fixtures
for them to just see
what they're doing i wonder if there's
any old um
open bizarre dag files floating around
because they would have been pretty
early
users and creators of dag structured
data
that could be used for fixtures
and they might be fine with providing
access now that they've kind of shut
that
down and moved on a bit i have no idea
i'm just throwing that up
cross-language test features that's uh
i'm handing that over to eric
it's his responsibility now uh my plan
for this was i was
i was working my way to uh to dag jason
and i wanted to get that title up so i
could then use dag chasing to sit
back into these other things and
represent things in dag jason
and and use them as test cases
for pushing the other formats around um
so it's a circular thing but jason isn't
quite finished up it doesn't work in
go ipld prime and that's sort of left on
the floor for now so
but eric's taking over that baton
okay um cool yeah
i it just reminded me that also like
even in rust ipld there's a deck pb
codec which i probably should check out
yeah
um cool um anything
else let me check the agenda no
all right does anyone have any other
items or
wants to discuss anything i have a
couple questions
yeah go ahead so i have one question for
eric
um about and if
um michael was here i would ask him to
but uh
so the textile team has found ourselves
in need of a hash consistent sorted
data structure um i've been playing
around with the javascript stuff it's
just lovely actually the chuck and i
think michael's chunky
trees library is a nice implementation
of that
do you know of any go implementations of
something
like that even that i could build on
um i don't know i don't think that we've
written one yet
i don't know how hard that would be
either probably not
super hard i don't i don't think so i
mean i know that there's one
of that paper i linked you guys to uh i
can't remember what that was called
what that paper was but anyway there's
an implementation of that one that's
like has some similar ideas that's been
implemented and go so i'm
guessing a bunch of crappy pasta could
be done there to make something
compatible
but i was just wondering because we'll
do it if we
if it doesn't exist so the path that i
think we had on that was
michael was trying to cement something
like trying to really get to a some end
point where we're like
this this feels good enough and then
then perhaps propose to do work
that provides uh multiple
implementations of it
um that's that's sort of on hold at the
moment uh michael is pushing that i
think he's
you know he's got his interest in ip
sequel and he's he's still pursuing that
but um michael's prioritization has
changed quite a bit as has some of
ours as well so um if you do end up
pursuing that further and it'd be great
if you could
keep us in the loop um and we might be
able to connect many dots together
cool yeah i mean if we do it's going to
be a pretty minimal
like implementation just to satisfy our
primary needs but
it could provide some baseline for
something else
because ultimately it's probably going
to end up being a pretty lazy data
structure that we
need um and so it'll be pretty minimal
just like
take some data figure out where in the
tree it belongs and then
like that's about as far as we'll ever
have to go
but anyway that's useful
yeah so we we did have a recent
fresh implementation of some of the hemp
stuff which is
so it's also a hash tree but it's not
it's almost the opposite of sorted right
so probably not the exact implementation
that you want um
but we were working on one of those
really recently and danny was actually
just
wrapping up a bunch of the stuff on that
and so it's probable that that would
also be a really good example of how we
would
do it and then and then just the
sharding logic i'm sure will be
different but a bunch of the rest of the
like code organization will probably be
very reusable so that could be helpful
oh that would be super helpful
is there what where should i look for
that
uh i think it's github.com ipld
go dash adl-hampt or something i
made that up off the top of my head
assuming that our naming scheme is
consistent
it's not i guess wrong um
we'll find it somewhere
that's great that'll be that's very
helpful um
and then my other question is more of a
comment
which is what i call questions that are
actually really in the form of a comment
usually you get them at conferences and
things like that where people pretend to
ask a question but are really
making some snag comment about something
you presented
but um i just wanted to mention that uh
there may be
some real world edge casey
type hack arounds in some of that
originally we'd written a javascript
implementation called ipfs lite
um and now it's been migrated over to
some ipfs repos and it's called like
ipl ipfs
dag service i think and in some of those
tests there was a bunch of really ugly
hacky things to like
make some of the block api stuff
work with older um
like unix fs readers and writers
um it's a bit out of date now but there
may be
like it's not up to date with the latest
multi-formats js stuff
but there may be some comments like
note this is here because of
incompatibilities between cids
like libraries and those notes might be
valuable so just wanted to
point that out
also that's kind of like an interface
that um
i just recently redid actually um
i kind of wish that ipfs js ipfs
built their like dag service in a
composable way like that so that you
could just swap in a different one
um so if you're in there messing around
uh it would be wonderful to like make
that
dag resolver a bit more plugable just a
suggestion um
because i know that rackley
wants that as well for some of his work
so
[Music]
that's my comment
one of the one of the tasks that we have
as a proposal to take on some work is to
make
the whole thing more composable like
just let's just
stop doing this monolith thing and make
it so that you can just
take the useful bits that you care about
for your application then piece them
together
yeah um that's an ideal that a lot of us
really
really want to aim for but there's a
whole lot of work in that that
we have to make sure we can that is a
legit priority compared to all the other
things we could be doing so right but
that's a really good bit of feedback and
maybe i should jot that down so dag
service for you is the
the biggest piece of that puzzle is that
what you're saying well dag service is
huge because it encompasses like
so much of what you actually really only
need ipfs to do in a like lightweight
browser environment i need to fetch some
dags
pull them together and display something
for you and
all i need for that is like access to a
block store and i
live p2p host and a dag service that
knows like how to deal with those and
that's it
i don't need pinning apis i don't need
you know ipns
i don't need pub sub i don't need like
all these other sub modules i just need
to
fetch some dags half the time i don't
even need to put it
so like i barely even need to be able to
like
you know i need minimal bit swap and
then
like as an added bonus one of the
reasons i was pulling it apart and
rebuilding our own is because
instead of bit swap we wanted a graph
sync to
graph sinky type uh protocol because
our two peers we know that they are
tracking the same dags so
there's no point in like a more general
bit swap they might as well just
do a sync together and so being able to
swap in like those components
are nice as well obviously
cool yes yeah this kind of thing has
been
like on my agenda since i joined
protocol labs and worked on ipld
it was like oh i just i just need the
ipld i don't need all those like
ipfs things just just networking storage
ipld that's
it but yeah yeah
so eventually we'll see
uh cool um anything else
nope then thanks everyone for attending
and see you all again next week